## Candidate gene expression, coding sequence variants and skeletal muscle contractile force in Warmblood horses with myofibrillar myopathy 
Zoë J. Williams

**Code**  
This page serves as a repository of bash and R scipts used to conduct this study.    

**Background**   
Myofibrillar myopathy (MFM) of unknown etiology has recently been identified
in Warmblood (WB) horses. In humans, 16 genes have been implicated in various MFM-like
disorders.

**Objectives**    
To identify variants in 16 MFM candidate genes and compare allele frequencies
(AF) of all variants between MFM WB and non-MFM WB and coding variants with moderate or
severe predicted effects in MFM WB with publicly available data of other breeds. To compare
differential gene expression (DE) and muscle fiber contractile force between MFM and non-
MFM WB.

**Study design**   
Case-control

**Animals**   
Eight MFM WB, eight non-MFM WB; 33 other WB, 32 Thoroughbreds, 80 Quarter Horses
and 77 horses of other breeds in public databases.

**Methods**   
Variants were called within transcripts of 16 candidate genes using gluteal muscle
mRNA sequences aligned to EquCab3.0 and AF compared by Fisher’s exact test among MFM
WB, non-MFM WB and public sequences across breeds. Candidate gene DE was determined
between MFM and non-MFM WB by fitting a negative binomial generalized log-linear model
per gene (FDR &lt; 0.05). The maximal isometric force/cross-sectional area generated by isolated
membrane-permeabilized muscle fibers was determined.

**Results**    
None of the 426 variants identified in 16 candidate genes were associated with MFM
including 26 missense variants. Breed specific differences existed in AF. Candidate gene DE and
muscle fiber specific force did not differ between MFM WB (143.1 ± 34.7 kPa) and non-MFM
WB (140.2 ± 43.7 kPa) (P = 0.8).
